This is an implementation of the post-quantum signature algorithm
Falcon-512, as per NIST PQC (round 2). This version includes the
2019/09/18 fixes.


PRIVATE KEY FORMAT

In this implementation, private key storage uses the portable and
compact format (the three vectors f, g and F, whose coordinates are
small integers). The "Falcon tree" is recomputed dynamically with
each signature.


IMPLEMENTATION OF FLOATING-POINT

This code performs all computations on floating-point values through
routines that use only integer operations; this makes it quite slow when
compared with what can be done with an hardware FPU, but also very
portable.


CONSTANT-TIME STATUS

This implementation is constant-time, provided that the underlying
platform (CPU and compiler) provides constant-time operations for:

 * 32x32->64 multiplications (multiplications of two 32-bit integers,
   result over 64 bits).

 * Left and right shifts of 32-bit integers, with a secret shift count.

Notable platforms on which 32x32->64 multiplications are not
constant-time include the ARM Cortex-M3, and the PowerPC cores from
the G3 and G4 lines. See:
   https://www.bearssl.org/ctmul.html

As for shift counts, almost all CPU now have barrel shifters that provide
constant-time shifts, the most notable exception being the Pentium IV
(NetBurst core, from the early 2000s).


LICENSE

This code is provided under the MIT license:

 * ==========================(LICENSE BEGIN)============================
 * Copyright (c) 2017-2019  Falcon Project
 *
 * Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
 * a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
 * "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
 * without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
 * distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
 * permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
 * the following conditions:
 *
 * The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
 * included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
 *
 * THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
 * EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
 * MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
 * IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
 * CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
 * TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
 * SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
 * ===========================(LICENSE END)=============================

It was written by Thomas Pornin <thomas.pornin@nccgroup.com>.

It has been reported that patent US7308097B2 may be applicable to parts
of Falcon. William Whyte, one of the designers of Falcon and also
representative of OnBoard Security (current owner of the said patent),
has pledged, as part of the IP statements submitted to the NIST for the
PQC project, that in the event of Falcon being selected for
standardization, a worldwide non-exclusive license to the patent will be
granted for the purpose of implementing the standard "without
compensation and under reasonable terms and conditions that are
demonstrably free of any unfair discrimination".
