This is an implementation of the post-quantum signature algorithm
Falcon-1024, as per NIST PQC (round 2). This version includes the
2019/09/18 fixes.


PRIVATE KEY FORMAT

In this implementation, private key storage uses the portable and
compact format (the three vectors f, g and F, whose coordinates are
small integers). The "Falcon tree" is recomputed dynamically with
each signature.


IMPLEMENTATION OF FLOATING-POINT

This code uses the native 'double' type for floating-point operations,
along with AVX2 intrinsics. It works only on x86 CPU that offer AVX2.
Computations will be correct only if the 'double' type uses strict
IEEE-754 round-to-nearest-even rules with the 'binary64' precision
(52-bit mantissa); on 32-bit x86, where the 387 FPU may be used
(depending on host conventions), this code temporarily adjusts the FPU
control word in order to achieve this exact precision. This code was
tested on:

 * x86 64-bit (amd64 on i7-6567U):

    - Linux (Ubuntu 18.04), GCC 7.4.0
    - Linux (Ubuntu 18.04), Clang 6.0.0
    - Windows (10), MSVC 2015

 * x86 32-bit (i386 on i7-6567U):

    - Linux (Ubuntu 18.04), GCC 7.4.0
    - Linux (Ubuntu 18.04), Clang 6.0.0
    - Windows (10), MSVC 2015

This code has no dependency on libm. It will fail to compile on any
compiler that does not provide the AVX2 intrinsics; however, it includes
the relevant function attributes (__attribute__((target("avx2"))) with
GCC and Clang) so that AVX2 intrinsics are usable even if the compiler
command line did not include the '-mavx2' or similar argument.

This implementation can be deemed constant-time as long as:

 * Additions, subtractions and multiplications on normal values are
   constant-time.

 * Divisions and square roots on normal values are mostly constant-time
   (a slightly faster division when the divisor is a power of 2, or a
   slightly faster square root when the operand is a power of 4, are
   tolerable).

By 'normal values', we mean that all operands and results are either
zeros (+0.0 or -0.0) or values which are not subnormals, infinites or
NaNs; divisor is never zero, and operand to square root is always
positive. Falcon does not exercise support for subnormals, infinites or
NaNs. Slightly non-constant-time divisions and square roots are
tolerable because they occur only in a small fraction of private keys
(about 0.18%) and reveal at worst only a static information on a single
private key element (one leaf of the LDL tree), regardless of the
message to sign (only the LDL tree building uses divisions and square
roots, not the signature generation process itself).


CONSTANT-TIME STATUS

This implementation can be deemed constant-time as long as:

 * Additions, subtractions and multiplications on normal values are
   constant-time.

 * Divisions and square roots on normal values are mostly constant-time
   (a slightly faster division when the divisor is a power of 2, or a
   slightly faster square root when the operand is a power of 4, are
   tolerable).

By 'normal values', we mean that all operands and results are either
zeros (+0.0 or -0.0) or values which are not subnormals, infinites or
NaNs; divisor is never zero, and operand to square root is always
positive. Falcon does not exercise support for subnormals, infinites or
NaNs. Slightly non-constant-time divisions and square roots are
tolerable because they occur only in a small fraction of private keys
(about 0.18%) and reveal at worst only a static information on a single
private key element (one leaf of the LDL tree), regardless of the
message to sign (only the LDL tree building uses divisions and square
roots, not the signature generation process itself).

These properties are true on most recent x86 processors, since at least
the Westmere core in Intel CPU, and K10 in AMD CPU. See:
   https://ranjitjhala.github.io/static/ctfp-ccs18.pdf


LICENSE

This code is provided under the MIT license:

 * ==========================(LICENSE BEGIN)============================
 * Copyright (c) 2017-2019  Falcon Project
 *
 * Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
 * a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
 * "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
 * without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
 * distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
 * permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
 * the following conditions:
 *
 * The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
 * included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
 *
 * THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
 * EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
 * MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
 * IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
 * CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
 * TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
 * SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
 * ===========================(LICENSE END)=============================

It was written by Thomas Pornin <thomas.pornin@nccgroup.com>.

It has been reported that patent US7308097B2 may be applicable to parts
of Falcon. William Whyte, one of the designers of Falcon and also
representative of OnBoard Security (current owner of the said patent),
has pledged, as part of the IP statements submitted to the NIST for the
PQC project, that in the event of Falcon being selected for
standardization, a worldwide non-exclusive license to the patent will be
granted for the purpose of implementing the standard "without
compensation and under reasonable terms and conditions that are
demonstrably free of any unfair discrimination".
